SQL(Structured Query Language) :- Structured-is an data type . 

Data- In data we can store anything like raw facts , number , name or value

Types of Data
1.Structured Data - The data is in fixed format that are not able to change.
It store as an row and column format.
2.Unstructured Data - The data that can able to make changes the updation are taken place.
like text , imags , videos , emails 
3.Semi-Structured Data - Its an combination of structured and unstructured data.
Ex . Previous google map and updated google map

Query - It is used for perform with data and database 

Database - The database is an container where all the data are stored.
Any kind of data can be stored in database.
Requesting the data from database.

Language - Understandle languange for interacting with data and database is used the SQL

SQL-is used to communicate with database . It is used to store , retrive , update and manage too.
It is an standard language(programming language).

DBMS(Database Management System) :- The data is used to store the in file format . DBMS is software which used to create , store , manage , retreive , update data in database
Ex-MySql
Function:-
Manipulation
Recovery
Data Storage
Security

RDBMS(Relational Database Management System):- The data are store in table format which can be realted each other by there keys
Relationship : - Connection betn two or more table in database.
Relationships are usually created by primary and foreign key
At least need one table has the one colum which are same with other table with same column




Types of Relationships
1.One-to-One
ex:- 1 Person -------> 1 Passport

2.One-to-Many
ex:- 1 Departement -------> many Employee

3.Many-to-Many
ex:- many Student ----------> many coureses

Table:-Collection of row and colunm
Horizontal-rows it is called as record/tuple
Vertical-column it is called as attributes

Attributes-it is used to used to show identities.

Command : - Command prompt 
Mysql -u root -proot@123
***For opening the database***

select version(); - which version is installed

show database;

create database databasename;

use databasename; - i want to use any database and by default it will use mysql

select database(); -means it is used to show currently which kind of database i am working with 

drop database databasename;


